# My Advent of Code 2021 solutions

https://adventofcode.com/2021. I may keep some notes here on the more interesting problems.

Solutions are labeled `XXY` for problem `XX` ("01" through "25"), part `Y` (either "a" or "b").

All solutions must be run from the top-level repo directory, with input on stdin, and will print the answer as the final
line of output (
additional lines of debug/info may be printed before; pipe into `tail -n1` to get only the answer).

## Go solutions

All Go solutions are compiled into a single executable, the top-level package. To run solution `XXY`:

```
$ go run . XXY
```

For example: `go run . 01a <inputs/1.input`

## JQ solutions

There is one JQ script per problem part. `jq` must be installed to run; to install on Mac with Brew,
use `brew install jq`.

There are two ways to run solution `XXY`:

### Standalone script

This is the preferred method, assuming your system has `/usr/bin/env` that can find `jq` (Brew ensures this). Just run:

```
$ pXX/pXXY.jq
```

For example: `p01/p01a.jq <inputs/1.input`

### Manual run

First, open the JQ script file and copy all of the flags from the hashbang. For example, `p02a.jq` has:

```
#!/usr/bin/env jq -s -R -f
```

so your flags are `-s -R -f`. Then, run `jq` as follows:

```
$ jq [flags] pXX/pXXY.jq
```

For example: `jq -s -R -f p02/p02a.jq <inputs/2.input`

## Scripts

### Problem solving

These tools help speed up running/testing a solution. They're designed for Mac; YMMV on other platforms.

To load tools for problem X (note: single digit `X` for problems 1–9), run:

```
$ . aoc.sh X
```

For example: `. aoc.sh 1`

This makes available the following bash functions, all acting for problem `X`:

```
$ get             # downloads main input as inputs/X.input, and the Z'th code block from problem as inputs/XY.sampleZ.input
$ samp[jq] Y [Z]  # runs Go (JQ) solution for part Y on code block Z (default 0)
$ run[jq]  Y      # runs Go (JQ) solution for part Y on main input (copies last output line to clipboard)
```

A typical sequence would go:

```
$ get     # download inputs
# ... write part A solution ...
$ samp a  # test part A; repeat as needed
$ run a   # run part A "for real"; repeat as needed, then paste answer to website
# ... repeat for part B ...
```

### Setup

The solution templates (Go and JQ) were generated by running `setup/setup.sh` from the top repo directory.
